Create wac-acp-diff-story.md (#178)
solid/authorization-panel: proposals/acp/wac-acp-diff-story.md

# ACP Compared to Web Access Control

Audience: those familiar with WAC or those who learn from comparisons

> 

Reviewer: Indicate that this is for the purpose of discussion/exercise -- as other things are moving in parallel - and not to be taken as authoritative definitions of the mechanisms.

> Access control is fundamentally about stating `who` can `do what` `to what` resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access control is fundamentally about stating `who` can `do what` to `what resource`.
```

## ShEx for WAC:
Web Access Control (WAC) uses a simple schema to make those assertions directly in RDF:

``` shex
PREFIX acl: <http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#>
PREFIX foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>

<AclShape> {
  # who
  (  acl:agentClass @<GroupShape> OR [foaf:Agent] ;
    | acl:agent IRI
    | acl:origin IRI
  )+ ;

  # can do what
  acl:mode [acl:Read acl:Write acl:Append acl:Control] + ;

  # to what resource
  (   acl:accessTo IRI

>     | acl:accessToClass [foaf:Document] OR @<AclRegexShape>

Reviewer 3: I am not sure enough about this shape language. But it is saying that acl:accessToClass is either foaf:Document or an a RegexShape. I used regexes in rww-play, but I don't think the current WAC does this. (I may be mistaken). Still a regex can be used as a way among others of constraining a set resources. Other ways are by describing creation date, authorship, etc... So if you cut out the subclassing possibilities of RDF then you will come to conclusions about the limitations of WAC that are related to the constraint language used, not to RDF itself.

> For example if Jezebel decides to let Bartholamew copy her physics assignment, should could write:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if Jezebel decides to let Bartholomew copy her physics assignment, she could write:
```

``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-1
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessTo </courses/8.04/assignment-1> .
```
In Solid, this access document would appear in the same Container as `assignment-1`.

> In principle WAC lets her grant access to all assignments under `/courses/8.04/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In principle, WAC lets her grant access to all assignments under `/courses/8.04/`
```

``` turtle
_:bart-copies-my-assignments
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessToClass [ acl:regex ".*/courses/8.04/assignment-.*" ] .
```

> , but Solid doesn't implement that feature, instead appying access to everything in a Container, e.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
&mdash; but Solid doesn't implement that feature, instead applying access to everything in a Container, e.g. &mdash;
```

> As above, Jezebel can let Bartholomew copy her homework by editing the ACL document associated with `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>` by the `acp:accessControl` link header (e.g. `</courses/8.04/assignment-1?access>`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As above, Jezebel can let Bartholomew copy her homework by editing the ACL document associated with `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>` by the `acp:accessControl` link header (e.g., `</courses/8.04/assignment-1?access>`):
```

``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-1
  a acl:AccessControl ;
  acp:apply [
    a acp:AccessPolicy ;
    acp:allow acp:Read ;
    acp:allOf [
      acp:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id>
    ]
  ] .
```

> She could instead move that policy someplace independent from the existence of `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>`, e.g `</myAccessPolicies>`, so it won't disappear if she deletes or renames `assignment-1`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
She could instead move that policy someplace independent from the existence of `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>`, e.g., `</myAccessPolicies>`, so it won't disappear if she deletes or renames `assignment-1`:
```

``` turtle
<#bart-copies-my-homework>
  a acp:AccessPolicy ;
  acp:allow acp:Read ;
  acp:allOf [
    acp:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id>
  ] .
```

> Now she can and apply it to multiple homeworks or all of her 8.04 documents with individual access controls like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now she can apply it to multiple homework documents or all of her 8.04 documents with individual access controls like:
```

# ACP Compared to Web Access Control

This document is intended to reflect the following authoritative-ish definitions:
- [W3C wiki](http://www.w3.org/wiki/WebAccessControl)
- [solid/specification](http://github.com/solid/specification)
- [sold/web-access-control](http://github.com/solid/solid-spec)
The goal is to ground conversations which compare WAC and ACP.
This is a work in progress.

Audience: those familiar with WAC or those who learn from comparisons

Access control is fundamentally about stating `who` can `do what` to `what resource`.

## ShEx for WAC:

> Web Access Control (WAC) uses a simple schema to make those assertions directly in RDF:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Systems implementing Web Access Control (WAC) use a simple schema to make those assertions directly in RDF:
```

``` shex
PREFIX acl: <http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#>
PREFIX foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>

<AclShape> {
  # who
  (  acl:agentClass @<GroupShape> OR [foaf:Agent] ;
    | acl:agent IRI
    | acl:origin IRI
  )+ ;

  # can do what

>   acl:mode [acl:Read acl:Write acl:Append acl:Control] + ;

Reviewer: The value set for acl:mode is overly restrictive as per ACL Ontology:

```turtle
    acl:mode     a rdf:Property;
         :comment "A mode of access such as read or write.";
         :domain acl:Authorization;
         :label "access mode";
         :range :Class .
```

The rule may reflect deployments however ACL permits any class eg. `acl:Create`, `acl:Delete`.

Reviewer 3: note: the acl Ontology would be a lot clearer if it restricted the range to the subclasses of  acl:Access
https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/187

# ACP Compared to Web Access Control

> This document is intended to reflect the following authoritative-ish definitions:
> - [W3C wiki](http://www.w3.org/wiki/WebAccessControl)
> - [solid/specification](http://github.com/solid/specification)
> - [sold/web-access-control](http://github.com/solid/solid-spec)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is intended to reflect the following authoritative-ish definitions/clarifications e.g.:
- [W3C wiki](http://www.w3.org/wiki/WebAccessControl)
- [solid/specification](http://github.com/solid/specification)
- [solid/solid-spec](http://github.com/solid/solid-spec)
- [solid/web-access-control-spec](http://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec)
```

Reviewer 2: > `This document is intended to reflect the following authoritative-ish definitions/clarifications e.g.:`

`the following` fights with `e.g.` (readable as, `for example`)

I suggest either --
`This document is intended to reflect the following authoritative-ish definitions/clarifications:`
-- or --
`This document is intended to reflect a number of authoritative-ish definitions/clarifications, including the following:`
